Predicting Bank Term Deposit Subscriptions

A project to help banks predict which customers are most likely to subscribe to a term deposit, using data from telephonic marketing campaigns. With data-driven insights, we aim to save resources and boost campaign success rates.

Overview

Why This Project?

Telephonic marketing is expensive but effective. By predicting potential customers who are likely to subscribe to a term deposit, banks can:

Reduce costs

Increase efficiency

Maximize returns

What's the Goal?

To predict whether a customer will say "Yes" or "No" to subscribing to a term deposit, based on their profile and past interactions.

About the Data

The dataset captures details about:

Customer Info: Age, job type, marital status, education level, and financial history.

Campaign Details: Number of contacts, previous outcomes, and call duration.

Target Variable: Whether the customer subscribed to the term deposit (y).

How We Solved It

1. Understanding the Data

Analyzed customer demographics and campaign data.

Explored relationships between features and outcomes.

2. Cleaning and Prepping

Fixed missing values.

Converted text to numbers (e.g., job types).

Scaled numerical values for better model accuracy.

3. Building a Smart Model

Tried different algorithms like Logistic Regression and Random Forest.

Picked the best one based on F1 Score (to balance precision and recall).

Fine-tuned the model for even better predictions.

4. Making Predictions

Created a prediction file for the test data.

Evaluated performance on a leaderboard using the F1 Score.

Results

Key Metric: Achieved a strong F1 Score.

Predictions: Download the prediction CSV.

Insights Report: Packed with visuals and trends.

Why This Matters

By focusing on likely subscribers, banks can:

Save money on unnecessary calls.

Improve customer satisfaction.

Boost the success rate of marketing campaigns.

How to Use

1. Get Started

Clone the repo:

git clone https://github.com/your-repo-url.git
cd your-repo-url

Install the tools:

pip install -r requirements.txt

Explore the data and results:

jupyter notebook

2. Submit Your Results

Save predictions in the required format.

Upload to the submission platform.

Check your leaderboard rank and metrics.

What's Inside

Prediction CSV: The results of the model.

EDA Report (PDF): Visual insights from Power BI.

Presentation (PPT): Explains the entire process and findings.

Project Highlights

Fast and Accurate: Our model delivers results quickly.

Actionable Insights: Visualizations reveal trends and customer behaviors.

Ready to Use: Follow our steps to reproduce the results.

Credits

This project wouldn’t be possible without the dataset and submission platform provided by the organizers. Check out the dataset repository to learn more.

Let’s make marketing smarter and more efficient!


